Hello everybody and welcome back.
This is going to be a quick lecture on creating your own shortcuts.
Now we're not going to go as far as doing any python coding but we can very easily if you're constantly
using the same menu item you can often link it to a keyboard shortcut.
In fact sometimes it may be that your favorite keyboard shortcut has changed.
So for instance earlier on in the last lecture we will go into view navigation scrolling down here walk
navigation and it doesn't have a keyboard shortcut listed next to it it does in fact have a keyboard
shortcut.
How would we know about it.
Well there is a big long list of these under Edit Preferences.
If we go to the key map option we have every single keyboard shortcut you can think of in all of these
drop downs.
Now you're probably not gonna go through all of these individually.
However the very top there is a search box and there's a dropdown at the top where you can even go back
to the old style of selection if you wanted so and keyboard shortcuts.
I'm not going to do that though because that will confuse everybody.
But this search box here is really useful if I type in walk.
We get a series of options one of which is the view navigation because he hits a keyboard shortcut shift
and what looks like an apostrophe is not as the grave key.
It's on a lot of keyboards next to the one beneath the escape key.
So if I go back to my 3D view here and get a shift in the grave key I now have my first person view
I can turn on gravity and I can walk around my scene which is pretty awesome.
However if that wasn't an option for you How do you go ahead and create your own.
Well the keyboard shortcut key for this used to be shift and F and I still reach for that to this day
but if we wanted to enable that's again providing it doesn't already do something else which it might
do.
So be careful you can ruin blender doing this or certainly your experience of it if we go to view data
navigation go to where we want in this case the walk navigation in my case anyway and right click we
can assign a shortcut press a key shift and F look at that it even comes up now on that context so I
can now go shift and F and once again my desire to have a shift in F B first person mode.
There we go is there I'm ready.
Now the great thing about first person mode is you can actually press space and jump to locations as
well.
And that's whether or not you have gravity turned on.
Of course you would just fall down with the gravity turned on but it is incredibly useful.
There's nothing really to focus on elsewhere but this gives us a great way of moving around our scene.
As I said in the last lecture and oh
with the spacebar and this we can come back up we can hit TAB fly background and walk through the front
door so we can see that it's very straightforward to assign your own shortcut case.
Now I wouldn't go over the top with assigning them whilst you're new to the program is you really going
to have to start repeating yourself multiple times.
And if you find yourself going into a menu option repeatedly and selecting something.
So for instance adding the default cube Well we can assign a shortcut to that.
Perhaps control out shift and see.
But do be careful because it's very easy to overwrite the existing shortcuts if there is one already
there.
Now you may notice something that's a quick favorites on top.
So if adding a cube is something you do very often we can go and add two quick favorites.
It doesn't seem to do anything at first but now that we've added the cube to our quick favorites we
can just press the kuki and it will say cube.
Now this is incredibly useful.
There are certain things like flipping normals merging vertices and other things like that.
You can just get to really quickly from the Q menu and it's context sensitive as well.
If we're in object mode that menu will come up.
If we're in edit mode then it won't come up because we're talking about edit operations.
So later on when we come to you via unwrapping we can see here edge shortcut for that is control and
a control and he will bring up this menu if you find that opening up one of these all the time perhaps
marking a seam.
So I could go right click Add to quick favorites.
Now I can go.
Queue marks seem incredibly useful being able to do that type of quick interaction with Blender and
it's going to become more and more important.
Now these things aren't necessary in order to use Blender.
However when it comes to larger projects being able to use keyboard shortcuts will enable you to be
much more productive on those larger projects.
Again there is no right or wrong but B being able to get to a function that you use often is kind to
be a real incentive.
In fact that's what some of the add ons actually end up doing.
They give you options and toggles that are not easily accessible in Blender normally.
Okay that's it for this lecture I hope you find that helpful if you've got any tips that you want to
share with others please go into the discussions and share your favorite keyboard shortcuts but just
the standard ones.
But if you've found that you've got one that's really useful.
Sharing it with the community is bound to help someone else out as well.
I look forward to seeing those keyboard shortcuts.
I may even learn something myself and I'll see you all in the next lecture.